# NICTA t3as SNOMED CT Lookup

t3as SNOMED CT Lookup tool uses the [NLM UMLS](http://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/) to lookup SNOMED CT concept codes when given a UMLS CUI code and description.

This code is under the GPLv3 license. Alternative licensing can be arranged, please contact us.

This project is also available on Maven Central under the `org.t3as` group id, as artifact id `snomedct-lookup`:

<http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Ca%3A%22snomedct-lookup%22>

## Installation

Download the UMLS from the link above. Run the MetamorphoSys tool and install only the SNOMED CT data into some directory. Make a note of the directory path, as you need to specify where this is when running. If running the [SNOMED CT Coder web service](../snomed-coder-web) then the UMLS SNOMED CT index must be available locally to the web service.

## Building

You can build the SNOMED CT Lookup project only by entering the `snomedct-lookup` directory and running Maven with no arguments:

    mvn

It is then necessary to build an index of the extracted UMLS SNOMED CT data. To generate the index run the following script:

    ./create-snomed-db --help

## Running

It is possible to run the SNOMED CT Lookup from the command line. Enter the `snomedct-lookup` directory, and run the following command to see the available options:

    ./snomedct-lookup --help

This tool takes as input on stdin lines like the following (any line not like that is safely ignored):

    MetaMapConcept{sessionId=26, cui='C0085639', description='Falls', semanticTypes=[fndg]}

This would usually be the output generated by the [t3as MetaMap Tagger](../metamap-tagger) tool.

The concepts are then looked up in the SNOMED CT data and printed to stdout.
